# Generate entity diagrams with the metadata diagram tool
## Requires
- Visual Studio 2013
## License
- MS-LPL
## Technologies
- Microsoft Dynamics CRM
- Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement
## Topics
- Microsoft Dynamics CRM SDK
## Updated
- 01/17/2018
## Description

<h1>Generate entity diagrams with the metadata diagram tool</h1>
<p>The&nbsp;MetadataDiagram.sln contains<strong>&nbsp;</strong><em></em>&nbsp;the sample code that will programmatically generate Microsoft Office Visio metadata diagrams, build and execute the one of these solutions by downloading the sample. The folder contains
 a Readme file with instructions for its use. The code sample is a stand-alone console application that creates an entity relationship diagram. The program requiresMicrosoft Office Visio.</p>
<p>You can run the program at the command prompt. Simply list the entities you wish to include in the diagram as command-line arguments. Other entities may be included in your diagram as needed to show all the relationships for each entity you have requested.
 To generate a diagram that shows the relationships for the new_bankaccount and new_safedepositbox entities, use the following command:</p>
<p><code>MetadataDiagramConsole.exe new_bankaccount new_safedepositbox</code></p>
<p>The name of the generated Visio file is new_bankaccount.vsd.</p>
<p>The tool uses the name of the first entity on the command line as the name of the Visio file. If you execute the following two commands, the second command overwrites the diagram generated by the first. This is because the Visio files have the same name
 - new_bankaccount.vsd:</p>
<p><code>MetadataDiagramConsole.exe new_bankaccount</code></p>
<p><code>MetadataDiagramConsole.exe new_bankaccount new_safedepositbox</code></p>
<p>To avoid overwriting a generated diagram file, you have to rename the first file before you run the second command.</p>
<p>Click to see the <a href="https://code.msdn.microsoft.com/Sample-of-generating-a0ba0e47/sourcecode?fileId=182685&pathId=2059389640">
DiagramBuilder.cs</a> sample file.</p>
<p>More information: <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/use-metadata-generate-entity-diagrams#generate-entity-diagrams-with-the-metadata-diagram-tool">
Generate entity diagrams with the metadata diagram tool</a></p>
